Update getting started docs for new users (#1330)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool: doc/sphinx/source/getting_started/inputdata.rst

.. _inputdata:

********************
Acquiring input data
********************

ESMValTool accepts input data from various models as well as
observations and reanalysis data, provided that they adhere to the
CF/CMOR format. This section provides some guidelines for unfamiliar users.

Models
======

ESMValTool will look for existing data in the directories specified in the
user config file. Alternatively, it can use an external
tool called Synda (http://prodiguer.github.io/synda/index.html). Here, we
describe the basic steps to configure EMSValTool to work with Synda. This is

> the recommended approach for first-time users to quickly get up to speed with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the recommended approach for first-time users to quickly obtain some data for running
```

ESMValTool.

To install Synda, follow the steps listed in the Synda documentation. This
description assumes that you use the conda install. As the last step, Synda will
ask to set your openID credentials. Therefore, you'll need to create an account
at https://esgf-node.llnl.gov/projects/esgf-llnl/ and join a Data Access Control
Group, e.g. CMIP5 Research. For more information, see
https://esgf.github.io/esgf-user-support/user_guide.html.

Once you have set up Synda, you'll need to configure ESMValTool to recognize
your Synda installation. Note that it is not possible to combine the two in a
single conda environment, for Synda requires python 2 and ESMValTool requires
Python 3. Typing ``which synda`` while your synda environment
is active will print the location. Then, activate your conda environment for
ESMValTool. ``which esmvaltool`` will print the path to your esmvaltool
installation. Now, you can make a link to synda:

> ``ln -s /home/path/to/your/syndaenv/bin/synda /home/path/to/esmvaltool/bin``.

Reviewer: Instead of doing this, I would suggest creating a ~/bin directory, appending that to your PATH environmental variable (e.g. add PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin to .bashrc when using bash) and creating a link like this
```suggestion
``ln -s /path/to/conda/envs/synda/bin/synda ~/bin/synda``.
```
That way you will not loose your synda installation if you need to create a new esmvaltool environment.

.. _inputdata:

********************
Acquiring input data
********************

ESMValTool accepts input data from various models as well as
observations and reanalysis data, provided that they adhere to the
CF/CMOR format. This section provides some guidelines for unfamiliar users.

Models
======

ESMValTool will look for existing data in the directories specified in the

> user config file. Alternatively, it can use an external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user configuration file. Alternatively, it can use an external
```

tool called Synda (http://prodiguer.github.io/synda/index.html). Here, we
describe the basic steps to configure EMSValTool to work with Synda. This is
the recommended approach for first-time users to quickly obtain some data for
running ESMValTool.

To install Synda, follow the steps listed in the Synda documentation. This
description assumes that you use the conda install. As the last step, Synda will
ask to set your openID credentials. Therefore, you'll need to create an account
at https://esgf-node.llnl.gov/projects/esgf-llnl/ and join a Data Access Control
Group, e.g. CMIP5 Research. For more information, see
https://esgf.github.io/esgf-user-support/user_guide.html.

Once you have set up Synda, you'll need to configure ESMValTool to recognize
your Synda installation. Note that it is not possible to combine the two in a
single conda environment, for Synda requires python 2 and ESMValTool requires
Python 3. Typing ``which synda`` while your synda environment

> is active will print its location. To make synda from ESMValTool we suggest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is active will print its location. To make the ``synda`` program usable from ESMValTool we suggest
```

creating a directory ``mkdir ~/bin`` and and appending that folder to your PATH

> environment variable, e.g. by adding the following line to your ``bashrc`` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment variable, e.g. by adding the following line to your ``~/.bashrc`` file:
```

> ``PATH=$PATH:$HOME/BIN``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin``.
```

> Input data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Acquiring input data
```

+------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------+-----------------+
| CRU                          | tas, pr (Amon)                                                                                       |   2  | Python          |

> +------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------+-----------------+

Reviewer 3: Why is this removed?

Author: Because there is now a link to the source file in the github repo. This avoids having to synchronize the docs whenever the example recipe is updated. That's how I interpreted @bouweandela 's comment (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/1330/files/b6de044f6f982b71149b1476cd2dd17d477c1127#r328653971). Do you prefer to keep it?

Reviewer 3: But why removing only this particular dataset? This table is just an overview of all available cmorizers. Either we remove it completely or we keep it.
